.TH MYTOOL 1 "January 2026" "1.0" "User command"
.SH NAME
sys-monitor \- real time CPU and RAM monitoring tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sys-monitor
.RB [ \-i " Second" ]
.RB [ \-t " number" ]
.RB [ \-a " cpu% ram% ]
.RB [ \-h ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Is a command line system resource monitoring tool written in bash. It display real-time CPU and RAM usage, lists the most resource-intensive processes, and supports customizable refreshintervals and high-usage alerts.
.P
The tool uses standard Linux utilities such as 
.BR TOP"," free ", and " ps
to gather system information from the /proc filesystem and present it in a clear, continuously updating interface.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interval " seconds"
Set the refresh interval in seconds (default: 2).
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-top " number"
Number of top processes to display for CPU and RAM usage (default: 10).
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-alert " cpu% ram%"
Enable alert mode. If CPU usage exceeds the first percentage or RAM usage exceeds the second percentage, a warning message is displayed.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Basic usage (default settings):
.B sys-monitor
.TP
Update every 5 seconds, show top 15 processes:
.B sys-monitor \-i 5 \-t 15
.TP
Alert when CPU > 80% or RAM > 90%:
.B sys-monitor \-a 80 90
.TP
Full example:
.B sys-monitor \-i 3 \-t 8 \-a 75 85
.SH AUTHOR
Anis Noori <anisnoori@github.com>
.P
University of Tehran - Operating Systems Lab Final Project 1404
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/anisnoori/os-lab-1404-final-project-semicolon/issues
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR top (1),
.BR free (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR watch (1)
